---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

## Perceptions of Seaweed Aquaculture in Santa Barbara and Ventura Counties

*Authors:* Janelle Gaun, Madeline McEwen, Sydney Rilum, and Laurel Wee

### About:

This repository contains survey data analytics for a 2022 master's group
project entitled "Perceptions of Seaweed Aquaculture in Santa Barbara
and Ventura Counties" at the University of California Santa Barbara,
Bren School of Environmental Science & Management. Click
[here](https://bren.ucsb.edu/projects/perceptions-seaweed-aquaculture-santa-barbara-and-ventura-counties)
to access project executive summary and final report.

An online survey was developed to understand stakeholder perceptions and
support for expanding seaweed aquaculture in Santa Barbara and Ventura
counties. The survey questionnaire was created using Qualtrics'
web-based survey interface and consisted of 22 questions (all
closed-ended except for one open-ended) and 11 demographic questions.
The survey took an average of eight minutes to complete. Human Subjects
protocol required all survey questions be optional and thus we could not
force a response to any question in the survey. An anonymous online
consent form required the participant to select whether they accept or
decline participation before beginning the survey. The statement
included our survey's purpose, confidentiality, and anonymity.

Survey analytics were used to develop a community engagement and
outreach strategy for commercial kelp producer, Ocean Rainforest, to
utilize as a framework for aquaculture expansion along the California
coastline.

#### Survey Question:

What knowledge do Ventura and Santa Barbara County residents have
regarding seaweed aquaculture, and what are their perceived benefits
and/or risks about aquaculture expansion?

#### Survey Hypothesis:

The majority of the general public have not been exposed to the idea of
seaweed aquaculture; some are interested in the potentially beneficial
and harmful effects of it, however, most will likely not feel connected
to the topic. Those who are well versed in the trade-offs of aquaculture
will have more polarized opinions.

### Project Abstract:

Marine seaweed aquaculture provides sustainable forms of food,
fertilizers, and pharmaceuticals while potentially contributing to
nutrient mitigation, habitat creation, and short-term carbon
sequestration. The industry in the United States is underdeveloped due
to a combination of economic, social, and regulatory constraints. These
constraints exist in California where there is an insufficient
understanding of how the public and key stakeholder groups perceive
seaweed aquaculture, which appears to limit political support for or
against further developing the industry. Our study conducted a public
survey and semi-structured interviews with key stakeholder groups to
determine perceptions of seaweed aquaculture and whether it has a Social
License to Operate (SLO) in Santa Barbara and Ventura counties. Survey
results indicate less public opposition to seaweed aquaculture than
described in the scientific literature and by stakeholders associated
with the industry, with a majority (56.8%) of residents in support of
seaweed aquaculture expansion and relatively few (8.8%) in opposition.
Many residents are unfamiliar with the implications, benefits, and
impacts of the industry. Communication strategies to inform stakeholder
groups should provide clear and accessible information to stakeholders
so they will be more likely to form positive perceptions of seaweed
aquaculture and support future projects. Interview analysis suggests
that offshore seaweed aquaculture in southern California has a
conditional SLO. Despite widespread support from the scientific
community and public, and general acceptance from federal agencies, the
industry has not shown accountability to environmental non-governmental
organizations (ENGOs) and state agencies. Pilot projects can build
interactional trust with influential ENGOs and the fishing industry.

### Acknowledgements:

We would like to acknowledge our families, friends, and the students,
faculty, and staff at the Donald Bren School of Environmental Science &
Management at the University of California, Santa Barbara for their
support and assistance throughout this project.

-   *Faculty Advisor:* Hunter S. Lenihan, PhD

-   *External Advisors:* Sarah E. Anderson, PhD; Kevin M. Johnson, PhD

-   *Ocean Rainforest, Inc. (client):* Eliza Harrison; Javier Infante;
    Courtney Schatzman

-   *External Funder:* Sustainable Ocean Alliance Ocean Leadership
    Microgrant Program

-   *Bren School:* Heather Hodges, PhD; Allison Horst, PhD; Chris Jerde,
    PhD; Casey O'Hara, PhD Candidate

-   *Interviewees:* Thank you to the individuals that took the time to
    be interviewed by our team and provide key perspectives, knowledge,
    and recommendations regarding our research.
